---
layout: post
title: "NYC Short-Term-Rental Market Analysis"
---
## NYC Short-Term-Rental Market Analysis

### Introduction/Summary
Short-term rental industry as of late as been a big focus for the sharing economy and local and state government. People who have been putting their dwelling (Hosts) on platforms such as AirBnB and HomeAway are able to make money by making use of empty room or perhaps their whole house or apartment on these platforms. Local and State governments are taking notice because these platforms are bypassing the local Hotel Occupancy Taxes that local Hotels have to pay. No doubt the Hotel Lobbyists are putting pressure like how Taxi Lobbyists put pressure on officials with Uber.

Property Management companies are also using these platforms because they can generate more profit than long-term leases, depending on what areas (i.e.Santa Monica, New York City). Sharing Economy tends to create a demand bubble, causing prices to increase. Due to this reason as well as bypassing Hotel Occupancy Taxes, many local and state officials are banning listings that are entire units. Austin, Santa Monica, San Francisco all have put severe restrictions into number of days that the unit can be listed, requiring permits, and/or banned entire unit rentals

New York signed a law stating that short-term rentals that consist of entire unit is now illegal. Is there a way around this law? If I have a 3 bedroom place that is on AirBnb, and let's say I am not living there, am I able to list it as a 2 Bedroom that is not private (I would say I am occupying one) and still generate profit than a long-term lease? I could also list a pull-out couch that can sleep two to keep the same occupancy, but then give them the room I was occupying?

#### Scenario
There are few scenarios entertained in this analysis:

1. Does putting extra room(s) on STR or long-term renter generate higher revenues? Or perhaps a split strategy?
There will be cost associated with operating a STR versus long-term renter. Also an added cost of finding a roommate for renter for the few months not on STR.

2. Listing as a shared home (all but one room is available for renting), but actually entire home is available. 
There will be a decrease in ADR since it is not entire home, so it might not be feasible in terms of revenue maximization.

3. Where in NYC would be the best location to maximize revenues (highest price per cheapest rent)


### The Data

The data is comprised of a dataset of reservation data but is restricted by a NDA. The dataset has the following features:

1. Property
2. Check-In Date
3. Check-Out Date
4. Number of Nights (Length of Stay)
5. ADR (Average Daily Rate)
6. Neighborhood
7. Number of Bedrooms
8. Number of Bathrooms
9. Rent
10. Square Foot

The following websites were scraped:

1. Zillow - for available rental listings
2. Street Easy - for price/sqfoot of homes being sold (proxy for the value of neighborhood)
3. Walk Score - walk score, transit score, bike score (how easy is it to get around)
4. HomeAway - for adr per number of bedrooms per neighborhood


### Risk and Assumptions
#### Risks
1. Capture opportunity costs. 
	a. Being active on platforms like AirBnB and HomeAway
	b. Cleaning, guest management
	c. Capital needed to rent extra apartments
2. ADR, Occupancy are seasonal
	a. not standard across all months
3. Hotel RevPar is averaged, capturing luxury and cheap hotels
4. Neighborhood Price/Sqft is for homes not rentals
5. HomeAway ADR is average for year and neighhborhood
	a. Not seasonal
	b. Find ADR by month, neighborhood


#### Assumptions
1. Neighborhood Price/sqft as proxy for value of neighborhood
2.
3.
4.

### Methodology
Steps:

1. Import Reservation Data
	a. Data Wrangling 
2. Scrape Zillow, Street Easy, Walk Score, Home Away
	a. Merge Price/Sqft (StreetEasy) and walk,transit,bike scores (WalkScore)
3. Run a machine learning algorithm
4. Evaluate predictors coefficients
5. Use Zillow listings as a test set
6. Compute projected revenue
7. Use HomeAway ADR by month per neighborhood
8. Locate neighborhoods, units that maximize revenue




